---
published: true
title: Hello World!
layout: post
---
Hello Reader,

Thanks for taking the time to visit my blog. I'm writing this blog with the hope to effectively communicate my understanding of Computer Science (CS) with you. My intended audience is anyone who wishes to learn the fundamentals of Computer Science. I plan to write this blog like a story, and we will learn and marvel at how technology has shaped this century. I'm using [**Github**](http://github.com) for hosting this blog. Its fast, free and efficient for a blog for this nature. I will ideally write one post per week and as we progress the posts will get complex in nature. My goal is not to make you an expert in any topic. I highly doubt that any form of expertise can be achieved by reading blogs. My goal is to give you enough information and background to get you curious and interested to pursue expertise. The rough outline I have in mind is as follows. It will get more detailed and well defined as we get there.

* Basics 
  - Fundamentals of a Computer System 
  - Computing in the 21st Century
  - Working with Operating Systems
  - The Internet
* Working with Data
  - How is data managed
  - Getting what you want: SQL
  - NoSQL
* Building Software
  - Programming Languages: A story
  - How programs work
  - Let's learn a language, a little bit
  - How enterprise level software is built
* Building for the Web
  - Why web matters
  - What is *The Cloud*
* Where are we headed
  - Internet of Things
* ... More to Come